# SGXS utilities

Compiles with Rust nightly.

This crate provides ultities to create, modify, and inspect enclaves
in the cross-platform SGX stream (SGXS) file format.
For more information on the SGXS format, see also the
[SGS Rust library](../sgxs/README.md) and the
[format specification](../../doc/SGXS.md).

## pe2sgxs (deprecated since v0.8.7)

`pe2sgxs` converts enclaves in Intel's PE format to SGXS format, optionally
extracting the signature. You can then use the SGXS file with the other SGXS
utilities.

This is deprecated since v0.8.7 because the code of its dependency `pe` is
incompatible with rust compiler since `nightly-2023-01-31`. The source code has
been moved to `src/deprecated`.

On newer systems, `sgxs-trace` can be used to extract SGXS enclaves from 
any running enclave program, including those generated by Intel's SDK.

## sgxs-build

`sgxs-build` generates an SGXS by concatenating raw binary files specified on
the command line. For example, to generate the simplest valid enclave possible:

```
$ as -k
mov %rcx,%rbx
mov $0x4,%eax
enclu
^D
$ objcopy -O binary -j .text a.out
$ sgxs-build rx=a.out tcs=nssa:1 > a.sgxs
$ sgxs-info summary a.sgxs
   0- fff Reg  r-x  (data) meas=all
1000-1fff Tcs  ---  (data) meas=all
2000-2fff Reg  rw- (empty) meas=all
3000-3fff (unmapped)
```

Input files will be page-aligned.

## sgxs-info

`sgxs-info` parses SGXS files for further analysis. It currently supports the
following commands:

### list-all

The most verbose listing format, which lists all the individual commands
contained in the input file, including their parameters. For EEXTEND commands,
data is either `(empty)` if the data is all zeroes, `[byte]*` if the data is
all the same value `byte`, or `(data)` in any other case.

This is the only command that can read non-canonical SGXS files.

### list-pages

This listing format lists all commands, except EEXTEND commands. The EEXTEND
information is consolidated in the preceding EADD command. The data is
displayed in the same format as in the `list-all` command. The `measured` field
indicates which part of the page are being measured by an EEXTEND command:
`all`, `partial` or `none`.

### summary

This command gives a summarized overview of all the different sections in
memory. The entire memory indicated by the enclave size is described.
Consecutive pages that have the same type, flags, data and measurement fields
are consolidated into a single line. Unmapped pages are indicated as such.
Characteristics of TCS pages are displayed.

### dump-mem

This command dumps the memory of the enclave as it would be seen before
executing an EENTER instruction. Unmapped pages in between sections are filled
with zeroes. Unmapped pages at the end are truncated.

## sgxs-load

`sgxs-load` loads an SGXS file into the EPC. Currently, only the Linux
ioctl driver is supported. You must also provide a signature and initialization
token.

## sgxs-sign

`sgxs-sign` generates a SIGSTRUCT given an SGX stream and user-specified
parameters. You can generate a fresh private key using the `openssl genrsa`
command like so:

```
openssl genrsa -3 3072 > private.pem
```

## sgxs-trace

`sgxs-trace` extracts SGXS enclaves by tracing the system calls of a 
running process and intercepting its interactions with the underlying 
Linux SGX driver.
By operating at this level, `sgxs-trace` can extract enclaves in the 
SGXS format from _any_ program that loads one or more enclaves into its 
address space.
The resulting SGXS files can then be used with `sgxs-tools`, regardless 
of the SDK or libOS originally used to produce the enclave.

Intuitively, `sgxs-trace` can be considered the "inverse" of  
`sgxs-load`: it reconstructs enclaves exactly as they are loaded into 
memory.

```
$ sgxs-trace -- ./app && mv enclave0.sgxs app.sgxs
$ sgxs-trace -- sgxs-load encl.sgxs encl.sig && mv enclave0.sgxs load.sgxs
$ sha256sum app.sgxs load.sgxs encl.sgxs | awk '{print $1}' | uniq | wc -l
1
```

Note: `sgxs-trace` relies on `ptrace` and is therefore currently not 
supported on Windows systems.